hi welcome to short-run pros video
series on various manufacturing topics
I'm Martha toll and today I'm going to
talk to you about welding galvanized
steel galvanized steel is a material
that we use fairly often it's a good
inexpensive alternative to regular steel
but it provides corrosion resistance to
encase your and you got your parts in in
a moist environment or just anywhere
where it where rust is a consideration
so we've talked about galvanized steel
before and what it is it's it's a
regular steel with a zinc coating over
top of it if you'll recall from our
previous videos now that zinc coating
provides or creates a little bit of an
issue when you try to weld it because
zinc has a lower vapor a vaporization
temperature than the temperature at
which steel melts so what happens when
you try to weld galvanized steel is that
the zinc will vaporize and you get zinc
fumes which can actually be dangerous to
the to the welders so it provides a
little bit of a little bit of a
consideration that you got to watch out
for when you're when you're doing it so
what how we address that issue is we'll
actually grind off the zinc coating
before we weld it and then after it's
been welded we'll we'll hit it with a
zinc paint we'll just cover that up and
as you can see in this this little
sample piece I've got here it it does
have a visible difference from the the
galvanized the rest of the galvanized
steel so if this is that if this is
going to be a problem for you in your
application like if it's a very visible
application and you want that galvanized
look you're you might have to think
about something else maybe going with a
stainless steel which is going to cost
more but at least you
get a uniform look at Killarney medals
we use it a lot for drip pans galvanized
steel is one of our most popular
materials for drip pans because it is
inexpensive and as you can see from this
drip pan we've got right here the
corners are all ground off welded and
then painted with the zinc paint that's
all I'm gonna talk about on the
galvanized steel welding today thank you
for joining me and we'll see you next
time